All right, so let's look at a String Recap.
A string in Java is an object of class java.lang.String,
and represents an array or series of characters,
but it's not an array of the primitive data type char.
When a string is created without a constructor,
aka not using new,
the string's stored in a special area of the heap
called the string pool,
whose purpose is to maintain a set of unique strings,
and this is called interning.
You can manually intern using the intern method
on a string object, and we'll see that in this video.
When you assign two variables to the same string literal,
those strings are considered equal,
and the comparator == evaluates to true.
So let's explore that a little bit.
Create a new project in IntelliJ, called Strings,
which I've done, as you can see.
We're gonna create a new class called Recap.
Then I'm gonna paste in my code.
Okay, so there's the code, and we'll run the code.
You can see that it demonstrated that
assigning the same string literal
to two different string variables,
is assigning both variables the same reference
to the same string literal.
Consequently you can see there that == has returned true.
So that's without using the new keyword,
but if we actually change that,
and create a string object using constructors,
the opposite is true.
To demonstrate that I'm going to add another method here.
I'm going to paste that in.
We've got a method there called StringConstructors,
and you can see that I'm using new on lines 26 and 27
when creating the strings.
What I'll need to do to get that to work
is update the main method to call that method.
That was StringConstructors.
So if I run that now.
So you can see s1 and s2 are constructed String objects
assigned to String variables, that's now equal to false,
because we've used new, as opposed to what we did previously
when we just assigned a string on lines 17 and 19.
So with that said, if you used a string intern method,
you're again assigning strings to the string pool,
and the references will become equal again.
So let me demonstrate that.
We're going to create another method.
StringConstructorsInterned as you can see,
and you can see we're specifically calling
the intern methods on line 40, and 44.
So let's put a call to that method.
StringConstructorsInterned, we'll run that.
And you can see we've got s1 and s2,
being interned String objects,
are now returning the value of true
when we do a comparison of them on line 50.
I wanna remind you that Strings are immutable,
meaning they cannot be changed in Java.
Once you create a String with a string literal,
for example, "Hello", the string remains on the string pool
with a single reference to it.
And if you do string concatenation for example,
you're not actually changing the current String.
Rather, you're creating a new String object
with the concatenated Strings added to it.
So it'd make more sense for me
to show you an example of that,
so let me create a new class.
We'll call this ImmutableString.
Paste in the code.
And that, what I've set there, that on line 13,
we're creating Hello on the string pool,
or a string with the contents of Hello on the string pool.
s1's getting a reference to it, no surprises there.
But note that on line 22, s1 = s1 + " World".
It doesn't change the value of Hello on the string pool.
Rather, it creates a new string,
that has a value of Hello and World,
and passes the reference to this newly created string to s1.
And Hello World is not added to the string pool
unless Intern's called.
So that's the second example,
but down the bottom is the interesting one.
Resetting s1, I'm showing another example using
string's concat method,
which we'll discuss actually later,
but s1 = "Hello", s1.concat(" World"),
what do you expect the output to be,
when we actually execute line 31?
Let's run it.
And, did that last result surprise you?
Did you think s1 would in fact be Hello World?
Confirming that s1 is a reference to Hello,
and you haven't changed it.
Though you called the concat method, it still remains Hello.
The string concat method will return
a pointer to the concatenated string,
which is itself a new immutable string, but the code above
didn't assign the result of a concat method
to any variable.
So in other words, we put s1.concat,
there's no pointing at the result,
so s1.concat to another variable.
Now if we had have assigned the result to s1,
then it would have been Hello World,
because it would have actually had
the new reference to the newly created string.
So in summary,
literal strings have their own special area
of the heap memory called the String Pool.
Any assignment of a literal will refer to
the same string in this pool.
You could force a string to be added to the pool
by calling the intern method on the String object.
Strings are immutable,
any methods that seem to operate on a string
are actually creating new strings, and these new strings
need to be assigned to the same variable, self-assigment,
or assigned to a new variable which represents
a reference to that newly created string.
So this has just been a quick recap on strings.
Let's continue on now to the next video,
which discusses more details about creating a string object.
See you in the next video.